# List-of-semantically-linked-MWTs

This is the repository of a dataset used for semantic relation acquisition between multiwords (MWTs) terms or analogy test. The necessary ressources for constructing the dataset are also uploaded in this Github, except for the corpus which is not allowed to be made public.

## Context

The dataset is constructed as part of the Addicte project (Distributional analysis in specialized domain, ANR-17-CE23-0001), funded by the French National Research Agency (ANR). The dataset has been introduced in the paper "[A study of semantic projection from single word terms to multi-word terms in the environment domain](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.computerm-1.7/)", accepted by COMPUTERM 2020.

## Motivation

Current research on identifying relations between terms is mainly focused on single terms (SWT). However, MWTs and their semantically related terms are also in demand in many applications such as text simplification and machine translation, but only a few works concentrate on MWTs. We want to work on the semantic relation acquisition between MWTs and a list of semantically linked MWTs is then neccesary for our study. Since such a dataset does not yet exist in the domain that interests us (the environnemental domain), the first step of our work is to construct this dataset. 

## Approche

The dataset is generated by the semantic projection method.
The semantic projection, also known as semantic variant and often referred to as a compositional method, is widely used to generate MWTs and predict relations between them from semantically related SWTs. This method is based on the assumption that MWT meaning is compositional. One consequence of this hypothesis is that when two MWTs t1 and t2 only differ by one of their components c1 and c2, the semantic relation between c1 and c2 is identical to the one between t1 and t2 because c1 and c2 contribute in the same way to the meanings of the MWTs. For instance, the relation between the *croissance de la population* and *diminution de la population* is the same as the one between *croissance* and *diminution*, that is antonymy. Our hypothesis is actually a bit stronger because we consider that the equivalence holds even when t1 and t2 do not have the same (syntactic) structure. For instance, the relation between *croissance de la population* and *diminution de la population* is the same as the one between the SWTs *growth* and *diminution*, that is antonymy. 

## Ressorces used for generating the dataset

### Corpus

The corpus used for extracting MWT candidates is a specialized monolingual French corpus in the environment domain (ELRA-W0065) created in the framework of the [PANACEA project](http://panacea-lr.eu/en/info-for-researchers/data-sets/monolingual-corpora). The corpus contains 35453 documents (about 50 million words) with different levels of specialization. The corpus has been preprocessed: extraction of the text, normalization of the characters, lemmatization with TreeTagger. 

### Reference for semantic relations ("RefProj.csv")

To build the dataset by the semantic projection, we need a list of simple terms (SWT) connected by the semantic relation as a reference. We extracted 831 pairs of simple terms (nouns and adjectives) from the list proposed by [Colborne and Drouin](https://github.com/gbcolborne/TALN_2016) ("refCD.csv").

## Different steps for generating the dataset

## Sample of the dataset
